Amazon S3

We have been talking about Cloud Computing recently, and if you have been following us then you remember that one of the main advantages of Cloud Computing is that you can have almost unlimited storage in the cloud, so today we are going to talk about one of the main Cloud Storage Providers and it´s Storage Service, we are talking about Amazon and their Amazon S3 Service, "S3" stands for "Simple Storage Service" and it is a scalable, high-speed, low-cost, web-based service designed for online backup and archiving of data and application programs,  and it allows storage up to 5TB which isn´t unlimited like we mentioned on the last essay we wrote, however, we also said that the amount of storage available depended on the provider itself, in this case Amazon limits it to 5TB so, S3 is one of the best cloud based storage services out there, with it you can access the same systems that amazon uses to run it´s own web sites, and the user even has control over the visibility of their data (The user can make them Public or Private as they like). So it sounds great, doesn´t it? but just how can you get yourself started on S3? That´s what we´ll discuss in today´s essay

We´ll start by telling you how to configure S3, To configure S3 you must follow this simple steps:
Step 1: Open the Amazon S3 console using this link: https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/home
Step 2: Create a Bucket, to do so you just have to click on  "Create Bucket" on the prompt window that will pop up at you, then on the a "Create a Bucket" dialog will open, fill the required information and click on "Create", now your bucket will be created! Now you just have set the properties however you like them to be and remember to select the "Static Website Hosting" option, click the radio button and, then again fill the required information.
Step 3: Add an object to the bucket by clicking o the "Upload" button on the S3 console, Click the "Add Files" Option and Select the files that you want to upload and then click the "Open" button, now click on the "Start" button and your files will begin uploading to the server.

Now to Open or Downloading and object you just have to click on the "Objects & Folders" list, right click on the object that you wish to download and then click on "Download", and you pretty much have to do the same process of right clicking on the object that you want and choosing the option that you wish if you want to Move or Delete and Object.

Now, about those Features that we talked about in the beginning, we said that it was low-cost and easy to use and that´s because on Amazon S3 you can store large amounts of data for a very low price, also, one of the most interesting points is that it is "Scalable" but what does that mean? Well it means that you can store all the data that you have and access it anytime, Amazon S3 is one the best performing services out there with their low latency which provides users with high data transfer speeds so that you don´t even have to think about low speeds anymore! And also Amazon S3 will prove specially useful if you use Amazon EC2 since you can connect to it very easily.

So what is Amazon EC2? Well, "EC2" stands for "Elastic Compute Cloud", this means that it provides you a Cloud Computing service that can be resized at anytime depending of your needs, it is designed for developers to have compete control over web-scaling and computing resources, EC2 instances can be resized  as per our requirement, these instances can be launched on on or more Geographical Locations or regions and Availability  Zones (AZs). Each region comprises of several AZs at distinct locations connected by low latency networks in the same region. So that if you are going to get into Amazon S3 it is recommended that you opt for Amazon EC2 as your Cloud Service Provider for maximum connectivity and practicality.
